**Abstract**

In the decades since their 1980 introduction, non-native Sacramento Pikeminnow (Ptychocheilus grandis) have come to dominate Northern California’s Eel River Basin. Known to prey on and compete with threatened native species such as salmonids, lampreys, and suckers, their invasion has been of major ecological concern from the start. Despite this, years of manual suppression have not successfully extirpated or significantly reduced what is now a substantial invasive population. One recently proposed solution is the Trojan Y Chromosome Strategy, a novel genetic biocontrol method which aims to extirpate an invasive population by eliminating females. This is accomplished by producing and stocking fish with YY sex chromosomes which breed and produce all-male offspring, shifting the sex ratio of the population until it collapses due to a lack of females. The goal of this project is to evaluate the feasibility of using the Trojan Y Chromosome Strategy to eliminate Sacramento Pikeminnow from the Eel River Basin, which  will be accomplished by creating a simulation model of the system. Specific objectives are 1) to determine the number of YY Sacramento Pikeminnow and the timescale of stocking needed to achieve elimination, 2) to determine how manual Pikeminnow suppression, YY Pikeminnow survival, and YY phenotype affect the effectiveness of a TYC program, and 3) to compare the feasibility of a TYC program across spatial scales. Results of this work will directly influence not only the decision to implement a YY stocking program, but the stocking numbers and management strategies used if one is put into place. 
